---
title: '21 March 2003'
slug: 21-march-2003
date: 2003-03-21T14:41:09+08:00
---

**linux.conf.au**

Had a nice dinner with the other LCA2003 organisers. The proceedings CD
took a bit longer to finalise than expected, but it is pretty much done
now.

**XFree86**

Some very weird stuff is happening in the XFree86 project at the moment.
The characterisation of Keith Packard by some of the XFree board just
doesn\'t mesh with my experience dealing with him. His approach of
working with the people who will be using the code has worked really
well (it is no accident that Xft and fontconfig have become so popular
and widely deployed so quickly). His [post to the forum
list](http://www.xfree86.org/pipermail/forum/2003-March/000168.html)
seems very sound from my point of view.

**EggToolbar**

Started doing a bit of work on toolbar customisation for EggToolbar. I
have basic DnD drop highlighting working in the toolbar. I think it
might be necessary to add an optional input only window to EggToolItem
to make dragging them easier in toolbar customisation mode. It looks
like it should all work fairly well.

Of course, these bits are relatively easy, so we will see how things go
\...

**GTA: Vice City**

Ran into a weird bug while playing it a few days ago. At the end of one
of the missions, there was a short cut scene where one of the characters
(Phil) was meant to limp from the car to the doctors. During the
mission, the cops had started chasing me. Since the cut scenes are run
through the game engine itself (and in the game world), the cops were
still racing down the street. The next thing I knew Phil got mowed down
while walking to the doctor and the cut scene effectively hung. Gives an
interesting insight into how bits of the game were implemented.
