---
title: '28 April 2003'
slug: 28-april-2003
date: 2003-04-29T06:36:28+08:00
draft: false
tags: ['Gnome', 'JHBuild']
---

**Red Hat 9**

Installed it on a few boxes, and I like what I see so far. The Bluecurve
mouse cursors look really nice. It is also good to see some more of my
packages included in the distro (fontilus and pyorbit).

**Spam**

Some spammer has been sending mail with random \@daa.com.au addresses in
the `From:` field. So far, I have received lots of double bounces, a few
messages asking if we know about the spam, and many automated responses
(some saying the message came from a blocked domain!). The `Received`
headers indicate that the mail comes from somewhere else, so there
isn\'t much I can do. I hate spammers.

I put up a bit of documentation on the SpamAssassin/Mailman setup I
developed on [my
website](http://www.daa.com.au/~james/articles/mailman-spamassassin/).
It would be good to get [mail.gnome.org](http://mail.gnome.org/)
switched over to the new setup (they are using an older version of my
filter), as it has greatly reduced the amount of moderation required.

**jhbuild**

Did a bit more hacking on jhbuild. It now builds fontconfig and Xft from
CVS, which should give Keith a few more testers. I had to update jhbuild
to use libtool-1.5 as it was required to build them. This has uncovered
a few bugs in various `autogen.sh` scripts that still need to be fixed.
I also added the ability to override the cvsroots used to check things
out (so if you have an account capable of writing to gstreamer from cvs,
you can use it), and change the branches for individual modules which
should be useful for module maintainers.

**libglade**

I am about half way through modifying libglade to construct arbitrary
GObjects, rather than just widgets. When this is finished, it will allow
eg. setting up tree view columns in the .glade file, size groups and a
few other things. The change will break compatibility for backend
modules, but should keep binary compatibility for apps. This seems okay
given that there are only about 3-4 backend modules in existance (which
add support for libgnomeui widgets, gnome-canvas and libbonoboui
widgets).
