---
title: '6 March 2003'
slug: 6-march-2003
date: 2003-03-06T16:26:20+08:00
draft: false
---

**Build Infrastructure**

Got approval and checked in my glib changes. I also have intltool
modified `po/Makefile.in.in`\'s passing `make distcheck` with newer
automakes, which should make upgrading other modules a lot easier.

Talked to [malcolm](http://www.advogato.org/person/malcolm/) who has
apparently been working on some docs for updating packages to newer
versions of the build tools, so I won\'t be writing my own document.

**PyGTK, Reference Counting and Cyclic GC**

When I started working on the 1.99.x branch of PyGTK, I added a feature
to make sure that there was at most one Python wrapper object for each
GObject, and that the wrapper would stay alive for as long as the
GObject did and vice vesa.

This is implemented using a bit of a hack, which I needed to update as
Python 2.2 developped. It essentially goes like this:

-   The Python wrapper holds a reference to the GObject
-   The GObject holds a pointer to the wrapper, but doesn\'t own a
    reference.
-   If the refcount on the wrapper goes down to zero and it gets freed,
    and the GObject\'s ref count was greater than 1 (ie. something other
    than the wrapper holds a ref to the GObject), the tp\_dealloc()
    routine would resurrect the wrapper. The GObject would now own a
    reference to the Python object.
-   If some other code tried to get the wrapper for the GObject, the
    saved reference would be transferred to it (ie. the GObject would no
    longer own the last reference).
-   If the GObject later gets disposed, the wrapper will be freed.

This worked okay for a while, until I started work on adding cycle GC
support for wrappers. Since the GObject didn\'t hold a real reference to
the wrapper, if the only references on the wrapper were parts of cycles,
the GC might think it okay to free the wrapper. Due to a small bug in
pygtk, the wrapper itself wasn\'t being cleared, but its instance
dictionary was. This led to the unfortunate situation where all the
instance attributes would sometimes disapear.

The obvious solution (in retrospect) is to work with the cycle GC when
implementing the single-wrapper-per-GObject code, rather than ignoring
it. Instead of the current hacks, I make the GObject hold a reference to
the wrapper and the wrapper hold a refernce to the GObject, forming a
cycle.

Since the Python cycle GC only applies to PyObjects, I still needed some
way to communicate information about references on the GObject to the GC
code. If there are references to the GObject other than the one its
wrapper holds, then we obviously don\'t want to free either.

I came up with a smart solution that seems to handle this very nicely:
If the GObject reference count is equal to 1, then the wrapper will
visit itself as part of the GC traverse, otherwise it won\'t visit
itself. Essentially this means:

-   If anything other than the wrapper holds a reference to the GObject,
    make the reference the GObject holds on the wrapper look like an
    external reference.
-   If the only reference on the GObject is held by its wrapper, make
    the reference the GObject holds on the wrapper look like a cycle.

This seems to solve the problem very nicely.

**Sieve**

I just found out about the *imapflags* sieve extension implemented in
the [Cyrus IMAP server](http://asg.web.cmu.edu/cyrus/imapd/). This
allows me to set IMAP flags on messages as part of the server side mail
filtering.

Since the mozilla message labels are implemented as IMAP flags `$Label1`
to `$Label5`, I am able to set message labels as part of the delivery.
This is quite useful for highlighting certain messages in a folder
without sorting them into a separate folder. For example, I can
highlight bugmail about new bugs in my bugzilla folder. Looks like it
will be very useful.
