---
title: '8 July 2003'
slug: 8-july-2003
date: 2003-07-08T16:42:30+08:00
---

**GUADEC 2003**

I said I was going to write a bit about
[GUADEC](http://www.guadec.org/), but didn\'t get round to it til
now.

**Saturday 14th**

Arrived in Dublin in the morning after about a day spent in airports
and on planes. Took the AirLink bus from the airport into the city
centre, and walked from there to [Trinity College,
Dublin](http://www.tcd.ie/). I ran into a\ number of hackers at the
gate who pointed out where the accommodation office was. Dropped my
pack off and took a walk around the area close to the college.

I went out to take a look round and get some lunch. Was surprised how
expensive everything seemed. Even though the exchange rate was about
AU\$1.80 to each Euro, the prices looked like the exchange rate should
have been closer to 1:1 `:(`.

Afterwards, I explored TCD a bit more, and found out where the
conference was going to be held. Made my way down to the network room
and met [jdahlin](http://www.advogato.org/person/jdahlin/) (at first,
I didn\'t realise who he\ was).

Went to dinner with a bunch of hackers at a Japanese restaurant.  Had
a very large bowl of chili/chicken noodle soup. We then moved on to
Messrs Maquires for some drinks.

**Sunday 15th**

On the Sunday, I went to the [Gnome
Foundation](http://foundation.gnome.org) Board meeting.  This was the
first time that we had had a face to face meeting of just the board
(last year we had a meeting with the advisory board, but that was
it). Was a very productive meeting.

**Monday 16th**

The start of the actual conference. Saw a number of great talks
including Havoc\'s freedesktop talk and Johan\'s PyGTK talk. I gave my
first talk in the afternoon: [EggToolbar and
EggMenu](/talks/guadec2003/index.md).  It
had a fair turnout and was pretty successful.  After the talk was
finished, I had a conversation with Hans Mueller who was looking at
some similar issues with menu handling and merging in Java.

Had dinner with the AbiWord hackers.

**Tuesday 17th**

The second day had a lot of great talks. I got to Alan Kay\'s keynote
a little late, but what I saw was very interesting. He made a lot of
good points (although I don\'t agree with of all of them). I then went
to Anders\' [D-Bus talk](http://www.freedesktop.org/software/dbus/).

After the break, I gave my [PyORBit
talk](/talks/guadec2003/index.md). Less people
attended this one than the previous one, but there was still a fair
number. I gave a few demonstrations of remotely controlling Nautilus
through its CORBA interfaces, and getting notifications on metadata
changes. Bill Haneman was at the talk, and asked how it worked with
the accessibility framework (as expected). I hadn\'t actually tested
it but I am fairly confident that PyORBit would be usable to script
the AT-SPI interfaces. It would be great to see Gnome become more
scriptable in the future. Whether CORBA is used for this purpose or
not remains to be seen.

Went to the Ximian party in the evening. Got to catch up with some
more friends I hadn\'t seen since last year. The pub was fairly
crowded in the area between the door and the bar, but there was a bit
more space near the edges.

I decided to leave a bit after midnight, since I was getting a bit
tired. When I got to my room, I found that the key card didn\'t work.
After trying three other key cards in the lock (including the master
key card), they decided that the lock itself was broken and got the
locksmith in. Ended up getting to sleep around 2am. In the morning
they came round to replace the lock completely.

**Wednesday 18th**

The third day of the conference was the Linux\@Work day. This day had
a wider/different attendance and wasn\'t as focused on Gnome as the
previous days were. There were some interesting talks, including Alan
Cox\'s keynote. The day finished with a wrap-up for the conference.

Quite possibly the best GUADEC ever.

**Thursday 19th**

The day after the conference, we had the Gnome Foundation Advisory
Board meeting. Again, this was very useful although I can\'t give many
details about it. It was a great opportunity for the companies on the
advisory board to get some insight into Gnome\'s direction, and to
give us feedback on what they were doing.

Afterwards, we met up and went to a Mongolian restaurant (one of the
ones where you fill a bowl with meat and vegetables, and then they
cook it for you on the spot).

**Friday 20th**

As well as organising a great conference, Glynn had also organised
a hike afterwards which I went on. The group consisted of me, Glynn,
George, Christian, Kjartan, Richard, Mickael, Carina, Richard, Alex
and his girlfriend. Mickael has since put some of his photos up on
[his
website](http://micke.hallendal.net/photos/?gallery=Dublin%202003).

Everyone met up at Glynn\'s flat, and then went to catch the bus to
Glendalough (which is south of Dublin). There are a few Glendaloughs
around Australia, so it was interesting to find out what the name
meant (Glendalough == Gleann da Loch == valley of the lake).

The bus stopped at the tourist centre, and we walked from there to the
one of the valleys. We then left the packs and walked up to the top of
the valley and walked along the ridge back to the town where we got
some food for dinner. We then made our way back to the packs to set up
for the night.

**Saturday 21st**

The next night we decided to camp closer to the town because of the
midgies. Even with lots of insect repellent on, they were still
annoying (they would get in your nose, throat, etc).

During the day, we hiked up a number of the mountains. The scenery was
great. At around 2:30pm, half the group decided to go up the last
mountain, and half went back to the pub. I decided to keep going,
which may or may not have been a good idea `:)` The ground leading up
to the base of the mountain was fairly swampy, so I was a bit tired by
the time we started climbing it (I am definitely not as fit as I used
to be). I was happy that I did climb it, as the view from the top was
great. We then went down to the pub to meet the others. Had a very
nice burger and lots of Guinness.

Unfortunately, there were just as many midgies at the new place we
were camping.

**Sunday 22nd**

We left Glendalough in the morning and arrived back in Dublin round
mid day. Later on that day, I had to get on the plane for another long
long flight ...

**Tuesday 24th (1:00 am)**

When passing through Singapore this time, they told me I would need to
contact baggage services in Perth, but couldn\'t tell me why. When I
got through immigration in Perth, I went to the baggage desk, and they
said that my pack didn\'t get transferred in London. They said it was
on the next plane, and would be delivered that evening. This did make
it easier to get through customs though, so it wasn\'t all bad `:)`.

It actually took another two days for my pack to make it home, getting
lost again in Singapore, or possibly Sydney (they weren\'t quite sure
when I called). grrr.

**Mailman/SpamAssassin**

The article I wrote up on integrating SpamAssassin with Mailman 2.1
got reprinted in
[LinMagAU](http://articles.linmagau.org/modules.php?op=modload&name=Sections&file=index&req=viewarticle&artid=171&page=1),
which was pretty cool. This edition also contains an interview with
Jeff. They are starting to pick up a bit of momentum, and may have a
print edition soon.

**Mail Viruses**

Like a lot of people, many many copies of the Sobig.E worm have been
sent to my account. I quickly configured the mail server to start
blocking the messages. However, I continue to receive many delivery
failure emails from other mail servers when they reject messages which
have my email address forged in the From: header.

Since the anti-virus software companies know that some viruses forge
sender addresses, it seems really stupid that they still send
rejection messages to the sender for those viruses. It would save a
lot of peoples\' time if they knew to discard rather than reject
certain viruses ...
