---
title: '8 March 2005'
slug: 8-march-2005
date: 2005-03-09T04:07:06+08:00
tags: ['Gnome']
---

**South Africa**

I put up my [photos from the trip to Cape
Town](/photos/2005-02-capetown.md) online. Towards the end there are
some photos I took while hiking up Table Mountain.

**Building Gnome**

It looks like with the Gnome 2.10 release, some packages fail to build
from CVS if you are using a version of
[libtool](http://www.gnu.org/software/libtool/) older than 1.5.12. This
is due to the way libtool verifies the version strings --- in versions
prior to 1.5.12, the check to make sure that the interface version
numbers were non negative used a shell pattern that only matched numbers
up to 3 digits long.

This might have seemd fine when it was coded, since how many libraries
actually end up with more than 999 versions without breaking
compatibility? However, many Gnome libraries are using noncontiguous
interface version numbers so that releases on the stable branch can be
assigned numbers guaranteed to be less than the versions released on
HEAD.

So many 2.X libraries use X\*100 as a base for the interface version
number, which means with 2.10 we reach 1000 and things break. With
libtool 1.5.12 and newer, the shell patterns have been modified to
handle numbers up to 5 digits long, so it shouldn\'t cause a problem til
we are ready to release Gnome 2.1000 (which will be due for release in
about 250 years if the current schedule is maintained).

**Mathematics Input**

[msevior](http://www.advogato.org/person/msevior/diary.html?start=27):
have you looked at the [OpenOffice equation
editor](http://www.openoffice.org/product/pix/math-big.png)? It provides
a fairly similar interface to what you\'ve put together, with a few
differences:

-   In OpenOffice, the equation entry window is shown as a pane below
    the document in the main window.
-   The OpenOffice equation entry syntax seems to be \"TeX without the
    backslashes\", which is a little less intimidating for new users
    (although if you already know TeX, it means that there is more to
    learn).
-   Editing isn\'t completely one way. If you click on the parts of the
    equation in the top pane, it will move the cursor to the
    corresponding position in the bottom pane. I don\'t know how easy
    this would be with itex2mml, since I guess the transformation is
    one-way.

I agree with you that this style of input is a lot more usable than the
Microsoft equation editor for people who understand Mathematics and need
to enter a lot of it. The MS editor seems to be optimised for
transcribing an equation from some other source, where you know exactly
what it will look like from the start. In contrast, the text interface
makes it as easy to rearrange an equation as it is to rearrange the rest
of the text in the document.
