---
title: '9 July 2002'
slug: 9-july-2002
date: 2002-07-09T09:26:53+08:00
---

Wrote a short Samba patch to fix up display of the print queue when
using the version of LPRng that came with RH7.3 as a print spooler. One
of the new features in that version of LPRng was that it leaves one or
two jobs in the print queue marked as done (apparently this was done for
accounting purposes).

Unfortunately, Samba was not expecting to see jobs marked as "done"
(it assumed that jobs marked "active" were being printed, jobs with a
numeric rank were queued, and all other jobs were paused). This was
causing a lot of confusion at the office, as Windows would not realise
that print jobs had completed.

It was fairly trivial to find out what to patch in the Samba source code
to fix this, so in about 20 minutes I had things up and running, and the
complaints went away. It was much easier to find the correct part of the
code to patch than with some other programs I have had to make
modifications to.

**PyGTK**

In my last diary entry, I talked a bit about how long delays between
releases of a package can hurt. It has been almost 2 months since the
last 1.99.x snapshot of PyGTK. I will look at putting out a new
release tonight after applying Arjan's closure cyclic garbage
collection patch and fixing a tree bug
[jrb](http://www.advogato.org/person/jrb/) pointed out.

A lot has changed since the last release, so it would be good to get
people trying out the new version. It is probably possible to implement
proper widgets now, which is a big milestone.

After the release, I will look at implementing some nicer ways to use
list store and tree stores:

-   `len(liststore)` should return the number of elements in the list.
-   `liststore[index]` or `treestore[treepath]` should return an object
    representing the row. getting and setting indices on the row should
    get/set the appropriate values in the tree.
-   `iter(liststore)` should return an iterator that returns instances
    of the above row objects. Haven't thought about iterating over tree
    stores.

These should help make the new tree widget feel more python-like, which
is helpful.
